# Contents

- [Thoughts](#thoughts)
- [Goals](#goals)
- [MLCB24 - Lecture 1](#mlcb24---lecture-1)
    - [Why Computational Biology?](#why-computational-biology)
- [MLCB24 - Lecture 2: Expression Analysis](#mlcb24---lecture-2-expression-analysis)
- [Antibody annotation](#antibody-annotation)

# Thoughts
- __Project idea__: Given the data I have access to, I can start a project that learns to represent antibody sequences, then predict assay results. Then I can generate synthetic antibodies that are likely to be effective in the assay.


# Goals
- [ ] Study Manolis Kellis' 2024 Computational Biology course.
- [ ] Review how ANARCI works:
    - [ ] Read the original paper.
    - [ ] Run the program on my machine.
    - [ ] Find a way to scale it.
- [ ] Review how to scale Temporal and come up with a strategy to scale it at work.


# MLCB24 - Lecture 1

## Why Computational Biology?
Computation and Biology go together because Biology is fundamentally composed of information and can be modeled by computation. Models allow us to visualize, simulate, and predict Biological phenomenon and inform our experiments.

The genome is full of signals.

TATA motifs

CCG repeats are binding sites for transciption factors

Genes and regulartory motifs

Signal vs Noise <-- where modeling / AI comes in.

Enhancers, promoters, etc.

5'UTR

Major/minor groove

Motifs are control regions.

__GOAL__: systems-level understanding of genomes, [gene](../241226-1240-gene), and [gene regulation](../241226-1242-gene regulation).
- Genome.
- Genes.
- Control regions: promoters, enhancers, insulators, chromatin states.
- [Regulatory motifs](../241226-1240-regulatory motifs) "high-resolution accessibility maps"
- Regulators: transcription factors, chromatin modifiers, nucleosomes.
- Dyamics: changing maps between cell types, development.
- Networks: regulator -> [enhancers](../241226-1243-enhancers) -> target, ChIP-seq, correlated activity.
- Grammars: TF/motif/mark combinations, predictive models.
- Human variation: population genomics, linkage maps.
- Evolution: phylogenetics, phylogenomics.
- GWAS/QTLs: genome variation <--> phenotypes.
- Disease: epigenomics, pharmacogenomics, synthetic biology.


__Generative AI__: deep learning and representation learning:
We can now find meaning in Biology.

__Deep data and the next wave of medicines__:
- Genetic differences that correlate with phenotype suggest causality.
- GWAS resolution allow us to infer causality.

3 major shifts:
Hypothesis-driven -> data-driven research.
Correlation-based -> causality-based analysis (perturbation experiments).
Classical data anslysis -> generative AI + deep learning.


In deep learning, classification drives feature extraction
Just like how convnets extract patterns from pixels, they can extract patterns from DNA which are like pixels with four values (A, C, G, T).

Foundation models are self-supervised models that learn representations by hiding parts of their inputs and predicting them. They possess emergent capabilities and make connections and insights.

Graph Neural Networks GNNS
- Build iterative abstractions from basic building blocks of the graph.
Graph convolutional networks GCNs

Attention and transformers
The representation of words depends on the context of the words around them.

Meaning is contrived from relationships. Think Word2Vec, where words are vectorized and the distance between vectors is the distance between meanings.

Joint multi-modal embeddings are projections of different data types into the same space - the [latent space](../241226-1327-latent space).
I think they use invertable functions to project from one space to another. They are invertable meaning that you can go back and forth between the spaces.
You can have multiple invertable functions that map from different spaces to a common space, allowing you to translate between meanings.
Imagine you have antibody sequence, structure, and assay functions that project onto a common space, then you can determine the structure and function of an antibody given its sequence.

NGS space + assay space

Knowledge graphs combine data from different sources and create a latent representation that can predict new relationships.

Protein structure and function is still unsolved

Joint embeddings create maps of different data sources that allow us to ask questions like "given a protein with this sequences, what is its structure and function?"

# MLCB24 - Lecture 2: Expression Analysis
Module 1: genomics, epigenomics, single-cell, networks, cirtcuitry

Core techniques:
K-Means: a clustering method that partitions data into groups based on similarity.
Gaussian Mixture Models (GMMs): probabilistic approach to clustering that accounts for data variance.

These techniques pave the way to ML principles like Bayesian Inference, and generative vs discriminative models.

Alignment using dynamic programming, Hidden Markov Models (HMMs), and posterior decoding.

How dimensionality reduction unravels regulatory circuitry.

Future: protein structure, chemistry, EHRs

## What is ML?
The ability to improve performance on a task with more training data
Task, training data, improvement.

Classification, clustering, regression, transcription, translation, structured output, denoising.


Making inferences about the world.
- Generative models express __forward__ probability of an event given the __hidden__ state of the world.

Bayes rule:
P(A|B)P(B) = P(B|A)P(A)

Likelihood: P(data|hypothesis) the probability of collecting the data if the hypothesis is true.
Prior: P(hypothesis) the probability of the hypothesis being true.
Posterior: P(hypothesis|data) the probability of the hypothesis being true given the data.
Marginal: P(data) the probability of the data under all possible hypotheses.

Bayes Theorem gives us the posterior as a function of likehlihood * prior / marginal
This allows us to relate observed data with hidden states like gene expression and a diagnosis of Alzheimer's.

The Prior in rare events is important and is the reason doctors don't do blanket screens for rare diseases. The tests are fallible and can return false positives. Without a strong prior, the test is not useful.

A mixture of Gaussian Distributions can generate clusters of data points. What does this mean? 
The fundamental assumption is that clusters or classes come from distinct generative process. If we can identify that a sample belongs to a certain generative process, then we can make inferences about the sample.

__Bayes rule allows us to use observations to infer hidden states and identify the generative model__

# Antibody annotation

[ANARCI](../241226-1115-anarci)



:AI:representation-learning:bioinformatics:antibody:temporal:
