
03:57
I woke up early at 3:30 today thinking it was already 6:00, made an instant coffee, set up the baby cam and started working.


04:08
I want to implement [Heartbeating](https://docs.temporal.io/develop/python/failure-detection#activity-heartbeats) in my long-running Temporal activities - especially process_manifest. I also want to know if Signals will be a good option for breaking stalled runs. I still want to break it down into a child workflow too.

04:19
I think I can learn more from [Temporal blogs](https://temporal.io/blog/durable-distributed-asyncio-event-loop) and their [Python SDK README](https://github.com/temporalio/sdk-python/blob/main/README.md)

04:41
I am ready to implement a non-blocking activities.

06:07
My multiprocessing Temporal worker workflow took 4 minutes to run a dataset. I updated it to async without changing the activities and it took 26 minutes.
I am creating an async implementation to test. The implementation needs to use async generations and loop executors.


12:18
I finished my first implementation. I used `aiofiles`, `aiocsv` and ran Boto3 file download and uploads through a ThreadPoolExecutor. We'll see how this goes.

I need to migrate this code to the antibody annotation microservice too.

Also I can't forget to deploy another worker for the experiment manager.

13:52
I need to remember to version my Dockerfile packages. Also, is the muscle package required?


19:15
I really want to update the biologica anarci pacakage to use importlib so i can use python > 3.10

21:43
I need to evaluate StartToCloseTimeout and also implement observability metrics to see how many tasks are taken up. I deployed an async version of my activity to dev.

I think the next bottleneck is in the multiprocessed workflow ProcessNGSData. That needs to become async too! Where should it live? Not Orchestrator.


__I still need to know if I can implement ANARCI myself more efficiently__


21:46
Are there more blocking code in my Ab Annotation activity?
