# Notes summary

I took sporadic notes today. My sleep was poor and affected my diligence. Below are notes from reading Temporal documentation. I did not accomplish all I wanted. My key discovery is I found blocking code in a microservice that I can fix. My plan is to set up a new workflow consisting of an async activity and compare its performance with the blocking one.

Here is a newly created question backlog page to track questions. When I as questions to myself I want future-me to provide answers.

[questions](../questions.md)

Also, a [TODO](../TODO.md)

# Temporal Worker Performance, Sequence Alignment, HMMs, and Antibody Annotation

My goal today is to understand sequence alignment, how the ANARCI algorithm works, if we can scale it, or if we need to roll out our own implementation.

My work will be done in Codespaces. The first thing I'll do is guage Temporal worker performance. I'll only be on one machine, but Temporal says activities are assigned to worker slots.

__My deliverable is an analysis of activity assignment to worker slots and a plan for how to scale__.

- [ ] Study Temporal Worker Performance
- [ ] Deploy multiple sets of NGS workers
    - [ ] Create an Analysis of Activity Assignment to Worker Slots
    - [ ] Create an Analysis of async vs threading or multiprocessing in Temporal:
        - [ ] which version is best at running ANARCI?
- [ ] Create a Plan for Scaling Temporal
- [ ] Getting top N sequences instead of top sequence
- [ ] Sensitivity analysis

# Temporal Worker Performance

https://docs.temporal.io/develop/worker-performance


## Concepts

### Task slots
A Worker Task Slot represents the capacity of a worker to execute a single concurrent Task. How can I query the number of available worker slots?

They are used for both activity and workflow Tasks.

An available slot determines whether a worker will poll for a new Task.

Does a worker run in a single asyncio event loop? If so, does it take multiple tasks under the same event loop?

### Slot suppliers
A slot supplier defines a strategy to provide slots for a worker and determines when to begin a new Task.
A supplier manages one slot type.

Slot types:
- Activity.
- Workflow.
- Nexus.
- Local Activity.

The slot supplying strategies manual or resource-based.
Resource-based suppliers are "auto-tuned" based on CPU or memory requirements.

Fixed-sized slot suppliers hand out slots up to a preset limit giving you an upper bound of how many Tasks can run at once.

### Task pollers
A worker has task pollers that long-poll a Task Queue in the Temporal Service for tasks to process. When a poller receives a task from the Temporal Service, it will deliver it to an Executor Slot.

They support server-side throttling and load balancing.

The number of Task Pollers are configured under WorkerOptions.

## Performance metrics for tuning
Three SDK metric groups.

### Slot availability
`temporal_worker_task_slots_available`, `temporal_worker_task_slots_used`

How can I see Temporal metrics?

### Latency
Schedule-to-Start latency is the time it takes between when a task is put in the Task Queue and when it is taken up by a worker.
### Cache
Metrics on the Workflow Cache and the number of cached Workflow Threads.


## Worker Performance Options
### Executor slot options
`maxConcurrentWorkflowTaskExecutionSize` and `maxConcurrentActivityExecutionSize`
### Poller options
### Cache options
A workflow cache is created and shared between all workers on a single host.
`maxWorkflowThreadCount` defines the maximum number of Workflow threads that may exist concurrently at any time.


## Evaluate Task Queue Performance
With an accurate estimate of backlog Tasks, you can determine the optimal number of Workers to deploy. Balance your Worker count with the number of Tasks to achieve the best performance. This approach minimizes Task backlog saturation and reduces idle Workers.

The Temporal CLI can be used to monitor and evaluate worker performance.
```
temporal task-queue describe \
    --task-queue YourTaskQueueName \
    [additional options]
```

How can I query backlog of tasks?


# Insights

The key insight I've gathered is ANARCI can run as an async subprocess if I convert the antibody-annotation-worker to use async functions.
